Study 1 Questions

Draft 1
-Have you ever seen a live coding performance before?
-What did you enjoy about the performance?
-What did you understand about the performance?
-How much experience do you have with live music?
-How much experience do you have with programming?
-Choose the image that best represents your enjoyment through the performance.
-Choose the image that best represents your understanding through the performance.

Draft 2
-How many live coding performances have you been to?
-How much experience do you have with live music performance?
-How much experience do you have with programming?
-Choose the image that best represents your enjoyment through the performance.
-Choose the image that best represents your understanding of the relationship between the visuals and the music through the performance.
-Can you think of any visuals that would make the performance easier to understand?
-Can you think of any visuals that would make the performance more enjoyable?

Final
1. How many live coding performances have you been to?
None - This is my first one
Less than five
Five or more

2. How much music do you listen to?
Hardly any
A little
A large amount

3. Do you play an instrument or sing?
No - I would not consider myself a musician or singer
Occasionally or I have in the past
Yes - I play or sing regularly

4. How much experience do you have with programming?
I have no experience with it
I have some experience programming
I currently program for my study/hobby/work

5. Please circle the image below that best represents your enjoyment through the performance.

Up then down
Down then up
Flat
Down
Up
Unsure

6. Please circle the image below that best represents your understanding of the relationship between the visuals and the music through the performance.

Up then down
Down then up
Flat
Down
Up
Unsure

7. This was a live performance! What effect did the visuals have on your sense of ‘liveness’ of the performance?
The visuals were distracting
They had no effect on my sense of ‘liveness’
They helped

8. Were there any aspects of the visuals that you found confusing?
