I'll sit nice and close
Right so this is the beginning
So the first little synth thing in this I knew pretty much exactly what I wanted to do
I was going to do random pitches at 16th notes
I think I probably did this synth thing exactly the same in other performances

[A: question here]

Yeah, well
This was not even prepared specifically for this performance
But I've done stuff like this in the past
This is a pretty common trick I use for getting up and running early

I think the bass is playing at this point but I can't hear on these speakers

[A: question here]

This performance was pretty safe.
It was pretty simple and pretty preplanned
What I would say is that the form of all of the instruments are pretty standard for my live coding

So the bass to go through a list of pitches like that 
I do that alot

For the drums I play with some sort of modulation of the sample slot, of the kit
I do that alot

I probably choose slightly different parameters each time through
But yeah, none of these things are really adventurous by the standards of my live coding

[A: question]

Honestly, the main reason is that these things work well
And I've tried other algorithms and they don't sound as good as these simpler algorithmic structures with judicious choice of parameters

Though I feel that as an artist sure, as a programmer this is not so interesting because the algorithms are pretty safe

There are a lot of people in computer music today that use fancy algorithms, they use cellular automata, they use generative algorithms
But I think it works better if you use... I've had more artistic success using these simple algorithms and then just using my musical experience and intelligence to select good parameters.. 

[A: question]

To be honest, I think in the second piece I tried to limit the callback rate because I knew that some of the visuals in the didactic setup worked better with a longer callback rate

[A: question - do you think this held you back?]

No, it certainly didn't hold me back.
In some ways it is nice to have constraints.

I'm now going up an octave
It gives it a harder edge

It is interesting that I'm very concious of the hypermeter.

I'm just grooving along and it just makes sense to evaluate in time.

[A: question]
Ah, nah.
In general I'm just so focussed on the [code?].

This little bit is adventurous.
This drum bit I didn't know exactly what samples were in those slots.
Before I was just guessing some numbers and picking numbers I thought might be good.

This bit is certainly more intense.
This is more european house.
I don't actually know wether it is european house but I'm sure there is some name for this genre.

This end bit is a bit new.
I hadn't planned to end it like that.

[A: question]
Not so much by chance.
I got to the end and wasn't really sure how I would finish this.
This is true making it up.

[A: question - were you happy?]
Yeah.

I'm actually going didatonically out of the scale I was using for the whole piece.

Yeah, I hadn't planned to finish like that but...
Yeah, yeah, I'm reasonably happy with that.
----------

I think in terms of the surprising stuff.
There were no surprises when I started/added each new instrument
I knew pretty much exactly what I was going to do.
I might not have had the exact parameters in mind.

I would have put maybe a 60 instead of a 70.
Even when I didn't have an exact number in mind I would have had an approximate number in mind... loud vs soft.

Once stuff is going then I think all bets are off and I at least don't really think through what I'm going to do after that.
Generally I'll go back and start messing with stuff.
In that case I went back and messed with the synth.
I did a bit of interesting stuff with the drums.
I went from a more groovy and pretty standard drum beat to a heightened beat which definitely changed the mood of the piece.

I'm not unhappy with that.
I'd probably do something different next time just because you do something different every time. 
But that was one of the things that surprised me.
In general I was pretty happy with it.
I think it is a good sound palette.
The drums grooved pretty well which is an important thing.
The bass line was pretty cool, though I couldn't hear it in that recording.

[A:question - in terms of the visualisations, do you think they added anything to the piece?]

I think they added something.
I think they are just ambience.
It is definitely cool to have that stuff going on that is a little visually interesting.
But I wasn't paying attention to them even then.
I definitely wasn't paying attention to them on the day.
In fact I tuned them out as best I can because I am just trying to focus on the code.

Like I was saying before there were times where it was hard to see the code underneath the visualisations.

[A: was this during the aesthetic or didactic?]

I think it was more the didactic and I think it was the text in the didactic ones and not in the aesthetic.

I definitely like the visuals.
They definitely add something and they don't take anything away even though I wasn't paying attention to them.
I still see the text as the main thing but the visuals are gravy and that was nice gravy. 

[A: question - audience was computer literature. do you think they would have preferred to focus on the code, the music or the visuals?] 

That's a good question.
I don't know.

I'm really curious.
Focus is a funny thing. You really explicitly go 'alright, I'm going to focus on blah and focus on blah'.
I think you drift.
Probably at different points they were paying attention to each.

I think I'm a bad judge of what people pay attention to because I pay attention to completely different stuff when I watch it.

What I pay attention is probably completely unhelpful in terms of an indicator for what even a computer literate audience member would pay attention to.




