Now this one starts at a slower tempo.
Half the speed... 60bpm vs 120bpm.

[A: question - was this due to the nature of the visualisation?]

No, that was just to be different.
They both work fine with the visualisations.

In fact the visualisation pretty much work with whatever tempo.

So this one is a slower starting one.
I still get it going fairly quickly.

[A: question - did the visualisations get in the way?]

It wasn't too bad because it's not over the top of where I was trying to work.


This is one of the things that I did have the visuals in mind when I put together this thing.
Initially you have the fast spinning visuals.
I knew that I was going to slow this one down and go for two bars of eight beat long sustained chords.
I knew that that would look cool as a slowly rotating thing.

In fact I stuffed it up there.
It wasn't so much a typo as I did a tricky thing where I tried to have a couple of overlapping temporal recursions and filter out only the fast one keeping the slow one going.
But that relies on changing the code once you've got it to the state you want.

I think in general with these parameters I was just messing around.
I knew the general form.
I was going to do some modulo [...?] beat parameter

You've got a couple of polyrythms.
I really like this bit.
I think it works well.

[A: question]

Timing is off by half.
We knew that was a problem.
I still think it works pretty well.

[A: question]
I think this one has real potential but it is disappointing that they didn't sync up.


This one is just grooving.
I quite like the beat in this one.

[A: question]
I quite like this one too.
The bleeps [..?]

[A: question - did the visuals affect your ability to see here?]
I can't remember to be honest.
It wasn't a big problem to be honest.
It probably only happened once through all four pieces.

[A: question]
Even when I'm watching it I'm tuning out the visuals.
But definitely during the performance.

I don't think this was planned.
It is a fairly standard part of my live coding toolbox.


I'm just changing the pitch.
So it's to do with the bass.
Quick ones and then long ones.

Then I changed the offset of the chords and the chords would come in staggered.
I don't know how well this one worked in the end.
I like bits of it but...

This one I think the stuff that is kind of up beat and is really groovy is easier to do than this.

This bit was dissappointing.
I had a cool ending in mind and the I stuffed it up here.
I forgot to put the tick symbol.

[A: question - did you manage to do the cool ending in the second performance?]

No, I tried to do the same thing and stuffed it up in the exact same way.
That was interesting and frustrating.
I had a cool ending that I just thought of that day.
Where I was going to do some harmonic organ-y stuff.
Take it through the circle of fifths and do an interesting chord progression.
But really kind of draw one out, slow finish.
But I just forgot to quote that symbol when I went from the minor to the major.

If I had other instruments covering me I could of started it again.
But since everything had died if I started it again it would have been really obvious so I decided in the moment that that is where I would finish it.
Whereas I had one more minute planned.
I started to go down a path where I had a minute more of material to finish it off but then just dogged it.
Frustratingly I did not quite the same mistake but a similar sort of mistake in the second one.
It's kind of really rare... obviously I make typos but I don't tend to make them in that way.

[A - was there some reason for the mistakes?]
Not really.
[A - chance?]
Yeah, just chance. Just life.

[A - was the main goal of this performance to entertain the audience... beyond the research?]
Yeah, I think so. I always want the people to enjoy themselves.
I tried to keep them pretty short.
I think every little set was under ten minutes.
If you're going to do a live coding set longer than ten minutes it needs to be bloody good.
So in general I try to stay under ten minutes.

It's interesting, some of my earlier videos are longer than ten minutes and I watch them now and I think 'this drags on'.
I'm much better at it now and I'm much better at making things happen quickly.
I'm especially better at getting stuff up and running, partially because I'm an emacs guru and have all the snippet magic to make that happen.
But also you just learn the little extempore tricks and the general tricks for getting things up and running.

For example in the aesthetic set, there was probably stuff going after only 10 seconds.
For this one there was probably stuff up before 30 seconds.
I reckon you've got to get something up before 30 seconds.

[11:38]
[A: was boredom getting to?]
Not really. Certainly not in a big way.
By the fourth I was like "I'm done, this has been a lot of live coding, I'm sort of out of ideas".

It's not even fair to say 'out of ideas'.
I had that cool idea about how I was going to finish it that I dogged both times.
It's just exhausting.
It really does take a lot of concentration.
I was done at the end and I was pretty happy it was done.
I enjoyed it, I had a good time but I was glad it was done.









